# AIP-Ict-7e-Prathyush  Html. A mystical land of mountains and mythologies, exquisite landscapes and exhilarating adventure, and wellness and yoga, Uttarakhand has something to offer every traveller. Popularly known as Devbhoomi, or the land of gods, the state is framed by the Himalayas and divided into two main regions, Garhwal and Kumaon. While Uttarakhand has several well-known destinations like Nainital, Mussoorie, Corbett National Park and Auli, and pilgrimage sites like Kedarnath, Badrinath, Rishikesh and Haridwar, explore the 13 lesser-known destinations from the state's 13 districts.
Lakhamandal (Dehradun) This ancient Lord Shiva temple in Dehradun district is famous for an episode from the epic Mahabharata. It is said this is the “Laksha Griha” or the complex made of wax where an attempt was made on the lives of the five Pandava princes
Jakhol village & Mori (Uttarkashi)A picturesque village nestled in the Garhwal Himalayas, culturally-rich Jakhol of Uttarkashi district is a perfect destination for an off-the-grid vacation. Mori is a beautiful township surrounded by dense forests on the bank of Tons river. (Enjoy rafting and beach walks.)
52 Shakti Peeth Theme Park (Haridwar)A picturesque village nestled in the Garhwal Himalayas, culturally-rich Jakhol of Uttarkashi district is a perfect destination for an off-the-grid vacation. Mori is a beautiful township surrounded by dense forests on the bank of Tons river.
Drona Sagar Lake Nestled in Udham Singh Nagar district, this pristine lake is associated with Dronacharya, the royal teacher of the Kauravas and Pandavas of the epic Mahabharata.
Khairasain Lake & SatpuliA serene lake near Satpauli in Pauri district, Khairasain is a scenic destination ideal for a trip away from the crowd. A floating restaurant in the lake adds to its charms. Satpuli is a picturesque village by the Purvi Nayar Ghati River, known for angling and canoeing.
Gairsain.This picturesque town in Chamoli district surrounded by rolling lush meadows and green hills is perfect for a summer vacation.
Mostamanu. A striking white and gold temple, Mostamanu in Pithoragarh district is dedicated to Lord Mosta, a local deity. Well-known for a vibrant fair in the months of August and September.
Rishikesh.Known as world capital of yoga and meditation
Ranikhet.The cantonment town offers clear view of snow clad Himalayan peaks.
Valley of Flowers. Home to rare and endangered animals.
Sattal. Pristine lakes set amidst a dense forest
Asan Bird Sanctuary. Asan barrage, is a stunning blue-green water body, around 43 km from Dehradun. One of the region's most popular bird-watching sites, nature-lovers and birding enthusiasts can be seen training their lenses on winged beauties here. 
